Add ERC: Wallet Capabilities for Account Abstraction (#947)
ethereum/ERCs: ERCS/erc-7902.md

---
eip: 7902
title: Wallet Capabilities for Account Abstraction

> description: New Wallet Capabilities providing a way for dApps and Account Abstraction wallets to communicate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: EIP-5792 Capabilities providing a way for dApps and Account Abstraction wallets to communicate
```

Specifically mentioning 5792 will make it more obvious where this proposal fits when browsing the list of ERCs.

> description: New Wallet Capabilities providing a way for dApps and Account Abstraction wallets to communicate

Reviewer: > [...] communicate

This is a bit vague. I know there isn't a lot of space in the description, but I'd like you to try to pack a bit more detail about what is communicated between the dapp and wallet in here.

Author: Tried to rephrase to make the description more informative

author: Yoav Weiss (@yoavw), Alex Forshtat (@forshtat), Dror Tirosh (@drortirosh), Shahaf Nacson (@shahafn)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/erc-wallet-capabilities-for-account-abstraction/23122
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2025-03-01
requires: 5792, 7702
---

## Abstract

[EIP-5792](./eip-5792) defines a baseline JSON-RPC API for a communication between wallets and dapps.
With EIP-5792, dapps and wallets can communicate advanced features using "capabilities" - extensions
to the base protocol that must be defined in separate documents.

> This proposal defines a set of "capabilities" the wallets may want to implement in order to provide a comprehensive support for Account Abstraction.

Reviewer: I think your abstract is spending a bit too much time re-explaining EIP-5792, and not enough time summarizing this proposal. There should be a high-level but technical overview of _this_ proposal in the abstract. What are the capabilities being defined? What do they do?

Author: Shortened the part about EIP-5792 and added a short but full explanation of the proposed capabilities

> This proposal defines a set of "capabilities" the wallets may want to implement in order to provide a comprehensive support for Account Abstraction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This proposal defines a set of "capabilities" the wallets may want to implement in order to provide a comprehensive support for Account Abstraction (AA).
```

Probably a well-known abbreviation at this point, but just in case...

## Motivation

[ERC-4337](./eip-4337.md) introduced Account Abstraction, enabling Smart Contract Accounts to function as first-class citizens in Ethereum.

> However, while [ERC-4337](./eip-4337.md) and [ERC-7769](./eip-7769.md) defines a low-level RPC API for Account Abstraction,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, while [ERC-4337](./eip-4337.md) and [ERC-7769](./eip-7769.md) define a low-level RPC API for Account Abstraction,
```

> it does not specify a way for advanced AA-aware dApps to communicate their supported features and parameters to the advanced AA Wallet Applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
they do not specify a way for advanced AA-aware dApps to communicate their supported features and parameters to the advanced AA Wallet Applications.
```

We define the following list of new "capabilities" which together cover many features necessary for Account Abstraction.
Note that use of Paymasters managed by a "paymaster web service" is described in [ERC-7677](./eip-7677).

### Create [EIP-7702](./eip-7702) Authorization Capability

This capability is designed to be used with [EIP-7702](./eip-7702) and requests the Wallet Application to provide
an EIP-7702 authorization tuple for the specified address as part of the AA transaction.

Identifier:

`eip7702Auth`

Interface:

```typescript
type SetCodeForEOACapabilityParams = Record<
  {
    account: `0x${string}`,       // EOA address
    delegation: `0x${string}`,    // delegation address
  }
>
```

Supporting Wallet Applications MUST generate an EIP-7702 compatible transaction that sets a code of the `account` EOA address
to the code of `delegation` specified in the request.

Attention! Wallet Applications MUST maintain a strict shortlist of well-known and publicly audited Smart Contract Account
implementations that are acceptable as `delegation`.
Authorization is an extremely sensitive operation and any vulnerability or malicious code in `delegation` will

> result in complete draining of the `account`.

Reviewer: This belongs in the Security Considerations section.

This capability provides very low-level access to the underlying Account Abstraction protocol and should only
be used by applications closely coupled to a specific version of a specific protocol.
It may also prove useful in the context of development and debugging.

It is generally recommended that production dapps rely on higher-level features of Wallet Applications instead.

Identifier:

`accountAbstractionGasParamsOverride`

Interface:

```typescript
type AAGasParamsOverrideCapabilityParams = Record<
  {
    preVerificationGas?: `0x${string}`,
    verificationGasLimit?: `0x${string}`,
    callGasLimit?: `0x${string}`,
    paymasterVerificationGasLimit?: `0x${string}`,
    paymasterPostOpGasLimit?: `0x${string}`,
    maxFeePerGas?: `0x${string}`,
    maxPriorityFeePerGas?: `0x${string}`
  }
>
```

Notice that all fields in the `AAGasParamsOverrideCapabilityParams` are optional.
Only the values that callers want to override must be provided.

Wallet Applications should warn the users about the overrides being supplied by the call and use these values instead.

Wallet Applications may choose to reject calls with conflicting configurations.

## Rationale

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<!-- TODO -->
```

## Motivation

[ERC-4337](./eip-4337.md) introduced Account Abstraction, enabling Smart Contract Accounts to function as first-class citizens in Ethereum.
However, while [ERC-4337](./eip-4337.md) and [ERC-7769](./eip-7769.md) define a low-level RPC API for Account Abstraction,
they do not specify a way for advanced AA-aware dApps to communicate their supported features and parameters to the advanced AA Wallet Applications.

This ERC addresses the issue by defining a structured set of capabilities tailored for AA-aware dApps and Wallet Applications.

It utilises the [EIP-5792](./eip-5792) wallet capability model to express some of the critical aspects of AA,
ensuring dApps can seamlessly adapt to different AA Wallets without requiring custom solutions.

## Specification

All actions in Account Abstraction within the context of EIP-5792 must be done on a single chain and atomically.

We define the following list of new "capabilities" which together cover many features necessary for Account Abstraction.
Note that use of Paymasters managed by a "paymaster web service" is described in [ERC-7677](./eip-7677).

### Create [EIP-7702](./eip-7702) Authorization Capability

> This capability is designed to be used with [EIP-7702](./eip-7702) and requests the Wallet Application to provide

Reviewer 2: not sure what is the use-case for application to require specific account implementation from the wallet.
- the wallet MUST NOT accept arbitrary delegations - it must explicitly assert the delegate is known to the wallet, it supports the basic usage (e.g. "executeBatch"), and doesn't contain malicious code.
- If the application requires a specific feature from the wallet - e.g. session-keys - it can't simply ask for a new delegate: there must be a separate API (e.g. an explicit sendCalls capability)

Reviewer 2: that is: if an app wants a specific feature (normal batching is part of 5792, but say it wants something else, like session keys) - then there should be a specific capability for that, not a "low-level" setting of the auth field.

  }
>;
```

### Validity Time Range Capability

The purpose of this capability is allowing the applications to explicitly specify the time range during which
the requested operations will be valid after signing.

Identifier:

`validityTimeRange`

Interface:

```typescript
type ValidityTimeRangeCapabilityParams = Record<
  {
    validAfter: `0x${string}`, // operation valid only after this timestamp, in seconds
    validUntil: `0x${string}`  // operation valid only before this timestamp, in seconds
  }
>
```

The Wallet Application MUST verify the time range [`validAfter`..`validUntil`] is valid and present it to the
user in a human-readable way for confirmation as part of the transaction information.

The Smart Contract Account MUST specify the time range [`validAfter`..`validUntil`] as the transaction validity range.

### Multidimensional Nonce Capability

The purpose of this capability is allowing the applications to explicitly specify the components of the
semi-abstracted nonce as defined in [ERC-4337](./eip-4337.md).

Identifier:

`multiDimensionalNonce`

Interface:

```typescript
type MultiDimensionalNonceCapabilityParams = Record<
  {
    nonceKey: `0x${string}`,

>     nonceSequence: `0x${string}`

Reviewer 2: nonceSequence is optional. the 
- If nonceSequence is missing, the wallet should use the next nonceKey.
- explicitly specifying nonceSequence=0 means that the nonceKey is unique.
- other explicit values are discouraged, since it requires the app to know how to query the current nonce - there is a `getNonce(key)` in SCAs, but it is not a standard.

  }
>
```

For Smart Contract Accounts that support multidimensional nonce values,
the wallet must specify these parameters during the actual on-chain execution of the batch.

### Account Abstraction Gas Parameters Override Capability

The purpose of this capability is allowing the applications to override the Wallet Application's suggested values
for all gas-related parameters.

This capability provides very low-level access to the underlying Account Abstraction protocol and should only
be used by applications closely coupled to a specific version of a specific protocol.
It may also prove useful in the context of development and debugging.

It is generally recommended that production dapps rely on higher-level features of Wallet Applications instead.

Identifier:

`accountAbstractionGasParamsOverride`

Interface:

```typescript
type AAGasParamsOverrideCapabilityParams = Record<
  {
    preVerificationGas?: `0x${string}`,
    verificationGasLimit?: `0x${string}`,

>     callGasLimit?: `0x${string}`,

Reviewer 3: With something like wallet_prepareCalls which handles estimation as well, I could still see gas field overrides or multipliers being useful

    paymasterVerificationGasLimit?: `0x${string}`,
    paymasterPostOpGasLimit?: `0x${string}`,
    maxFeePerGas?: `0x${string}`,

>     maxPriorityFeePerGas?: `0x${string}`

Reviewer 3: one usecase we've seen as well has been to be able to request a scaling factor override. might be useful to support that here as well ie
```
preVerificationGas: `0x${string}` | { mult: number }
```

as an example, scaling these values by 50% would look like:
```
preVerificationGas: { mult: 1.5 }
```

Author: Hello @moldy530 , sorry for a late reply. When providing the `mult` value to the `preVerificationGas`, what would be the base value to which the factor is applied?

Reviewer 3: all good! 

the base value in our case has been w/e the bundler or paymaster service estimate these values to be
